---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/gitshit/lachlan-s-editing-space/daily-notes/nov-15-2023/","noteIcon":""}
---


# English
#poem
## Widower in the country:
I'll get up soon, and leave my bed unmade.
I'll go outside and split off kindling wood
from the yellow-box log that lies beside the gate,
and the sun will be nigh, for I get up late now.

I'll drive my axe in the log and come back in
with my armful of wood, and pause to look across
the Christmas paddocks aching in the heat,
the windless trees, the nettles in the yard...
and then I'll go in, boil water, and make tea.

This afternoon, I'll stand out on the hill
and watch my house away below, and how
the roof reflects the sun and makes my eyes
water and close on bright webbed visions smeared
on the dark of my thoughts to dance and fade away.
Then the sun will move on, and I will simply watch,
or work, or sleep. And evening will come on.

Getting near dark, I'll go home, light the lamp
and eat my corned-beef supper, sitting there
at the head of the table. Then I'll go to bed.
Last night I thought I dreamed - but when I woke
the screaming was only a possum skiing down
the iron roof on little moonlight claws

By Les Murray

## Annotated version of the poem:
*I'll* get up <mark>soon</mark>, **and** leave *my* bed <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">unmade</mark>.
*I'll* go outside **and** split off kindling wood
from the yellow-box log that <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">lies</mark> beside the gate,
**and** the sun will be nigh, for *I* get up <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">late</mark> now.

*I'll* drive *my* axe in the log **and** come back in
with *my* armful of wood, **and** <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">pause</mark> to look across
the Christmas paddocks aching in the heat,
the windless trees, the nettles in the yard...
**and** then *I'll* go in, boil water, **and** make tea.

This afternoon, *I'll* stand out on the hill
**and** watch *my* house away below, **and** how
the roof reflects the sun **and** makes *my* eyes
water **and** close on bright webbed visions smeared
on the dark of *my* thoughts to dance **and** fade away.
Then the sun will move on, **and** *I* will simply watch,
or work, or sleep. **And** evening will come on.

Getting near dark, *I'll* go home, light the lamp
**and** eat *my* corned-beef supper, sitting there
at the head of the table. Then *I'll* go to bed.
Last night *I* thought *I* dreamed - but when *I* woke
the screaming was only a possum skiing down
the iron roof on little moonlight claws

1. What does the title suggest?
There is a widower, in the country - defined by his loss
2. Circle (italicised) all the singular pronouns (I, I'll, my). What is the impact of these?
Repetition, to reinforce the idea of loneliness (it is just me, myself, I alone here)
3. Write the time of day next to each of the 4 stanzas. What is the impact of having the poem based on one day in the widowers life?
- Stanza 1: late morning
- Stanza 2: noon
- Stanza 3: afternoon
- Stanza 4: evening/night
It shows how simple/repetitive each day is, monotony.
4. What sort of individual does the widower appear to be now that his wife has died?
The individual has a very melancholy feel:
- purpose-less
- direction-less
THE WHOLE POEM IS A PLAN FOR THE DAY, HE NEVER DOES IT
5. Underline (bold) every 'and' in the poem. What's the effect of having so many?
Sort of removes meaning from everything that's connected
6. Read the last two lines of stanza 3 which compare the sun and the widower. What's the difference between them and what does this suggest about the man?
The sun is personified, the sun "will move on". As everything moves around the man, he stays the same, in place
Note the tense in the poem: 
7. What do you think the most emotional word in the poem is? What is the impact of this word?
8. Highlight all the words that suggest the widower is stuck and can't move on. (eg: pause, stand, watch)

Widower: husband who's wife has passed away
Exam involves a general question, standard has to write a VERY GOOD paragraph for LMS. Advanced picking own text, so essay question is generally related to human experience that'll work for crucible, and a related text