---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/gitshit/lachlan-s-editing-space/daily-notes/nov-08-2023/","tags":["english","software","chemistry","maths","mathematics"]}
---

SDD assessment:
#sdd #assignment
- Design elements (glossary):
	- Ergonomics: the study of the relationship between human workers and their work environment
	- User support, including help screens and other forms of user training and assistance, is another area of ergonomic software design that requires consideration
	- User Interface: the screen designs and connections between screens that allow the user to communicate with software

- Setting standards and stick to them. **Set *design standards* based on industry standards** and then develop **extra standards specific to your application and user's needs**. Most operating system developers have sets of design standards; these standards will often define much of the design.
- **Explain the rules**. Develop a simple set of rules that apply to your **entire application**. In this way, you will need to explain your rules only once. This makes more sense than explaining the details of how to use each individual feature of your application.
- Use interface elements correctly. Know when to use screen elements and how to use them correctly. For example, **command buttons, check boxes, radio buttons, list boxes, text boxes, menus**, etc. Follow ***recognized standards*** for each of these elements. Never alter the operation of standard screen elements to perform unexpected functions.
- **Use colour appropriately.** Colour should be used sparingly. Colour is viewed differently by individuals, what looks pleasing to you may be abhorrent to others. **Don’t override a user’s system settings**, they chose them and your application should not override their choices. This ensures **consistency** between applications. Ensure you maintain sufficient contrast between text and backgrounds.
- Use fonts appropriately. The use of fancy fonts can decrease usability considerably. Use fonts that are easy to read. Don’t override system settings for standard fonts. More than three fonts on a single screen are too much. Use fonts consistently, there should be a reason for font changes and the reason should be immediately and consistently clear. Remember you are using a different font every time you change the size, style, typeface or colour.
- **Alignment of data entry elements**. Text boxes should be left justified with their associated labels also left justified. For columns of data, **right justify integer, align decimals to the decimal points** and **left justify text**.


For [presentation](obsidian://open?vault=Lachlan%20Drive&file=Software%2FPresentation)
Design standards based on industry standards:
- first thing
- second thing
- third (?)
Extra standards specific to your application and users needs.

Set of rules that apply to your entire application
- Don't exit menu $x$ until you've done $y$ 

Visuals:
- consistency in fonts
- consistency in colours

If something is irrelevant, mention that it is irrelevant


What are key functionalities of a program?

Design specifications

|**Developers perspective**|**User's perspective**|
|---|---|
|Consideration of:|Consideration of|
|Data types ||

**don't override a users system settings**

# Chemistry
{ #f39489}


#chemistry 
precipitates: solids formed in a reaction (normally between two aqueous compounds/molecules)
Solubility 
Group 1 elements are all soluble
Soluble (dissolving salts): Dissolves, solution
Insoluble: precipitate, solid

#solubility 

|Solubility Rules|Exception|
|:---|---:|
|All nitrates are soluble|None|
|All chlorides are soluble|Lead, Silver|
|All Iodides are soluble|Copper, Lead, Silver|
|All Sulfates are soluble|Barium, Lead|
|All carbonates are soluble|$K^+$, Magnesium, Silver|
|All hydroxides are soluble|$K^+$, Iron, Zinc, Magnesium|

SNAAP rule (anions and cations never forming precipitates):
- Sodium ($Na^+$)
- Nitrate (NO$_3^{-1}$)
- Ammonium (NH$_4^{+1}$)
- Acetate (CH$_3$COO$^{-1}$)
- Potassium (K$^{+1}$)
Remember silver chloride (AgCl), and lead chloride (PbCl$_2$). Then test for BaSO$_4$(barium sulphate). 
$2AgNO_3+CuCl_2=Cu(NO_3)_{2(aq)}+2AgCl_{(aq)}$
Since year 11, expected to know:

Nitrate (NO$_3^{-1}$)
Carbonate (CO$_3^{-2}$)
Hydroxide (OH$^{-1}$)
Sulphate (SO$_4^{-2}$)
Ammonium (NH$_4^{+1}$)
Phosphate (PO$_4^{-3}$)

# Maths
#mathematics #maths 
Brain dump:
$g(x)=a^{f(x)}$
$g'(x)=ln_a*f'(x)*a^{f(x)}$
trig:
To graph, use caps
$f(x)=asin(b(x+c))+d$
C: Centre ($d$)
A: Amplitude ($a$)
P: Period ($\frac{2π}{b}$ if sin/cos, $\frac{π}{b}$ if tan)
S: shift ($c$)

Solving trig eqns:
$y=sin(x)$
RAA: related acute angle, $sin^-1(|y|)$ - then find quadrants using ASTC (all positive, sin positive, cos positive, tan positive)
Simplify equations initially before working on 



Finding asymptotes:
Denominator = 0, vertical asymptotes at value of x to equal zero

horizontal:
$f(x)=\frac{2^x+1}{2^x-1}$
as $x$⇒-∞, $2^x+1$ --> 1 & $2^x-1$ -> -1
horizontal:
$f(x)=\frac{\sqrt{16x^2-8}}{2x-5}$
Divide throughout by 1/x
=$\frac{\sqrt{(16x^2-8)*\frac{1^2}{x^2}}}{2-\frac{5}{x}}$
=$\frac{\sqrt{16-0}}{2-0}$
=$\frac{4}{2}$
=2
∴horizontal asymptote at y=2 for positive values of x

Vertical:
$f(x)=\frac{x}{x^2-4}$
= $\frac{x}{(x+2)(x-2)}$
∴asymptotes at x=±2, as denominator ≠ 0
DISREGARD vertical:
divide by the highest power in denominator
$f(x)=\frac{x}{x^2-4}$
$÷x^2$
=$\frac{\frac{x}{x^2}}{\frac{x^2}{x^2}-\frac{4}{x^2}}$
=$\frac{\frac{1}{x}}{1-\frac{4}{x^2}}$
as $x$ becomes bigger, 1/x becomes smaller. Same with $4/x^2$
apply a limit as x approaches 0:
= $\lim_{x \to ±∞}$ , $\frac{1}{x} \rightarrow 0$
= $\frac{0}{1-0}$
=$0$
Whenever there is a power on the bottom of the fraction larger than the top, doing the above process will always result in 0
# English
{ #f9c620}


#english #crucible
### The crucible essentials:
- Play written by Arthur Miller in 1953 in the height of the cold war and [mccarthyism](Glossary#^mccarthyism)
- In the play, Miller explores the tragic fall of John Proctor, a real-life person who refused to confess to accusations of witchcraft during the Salem witch trials
- Miller gives to this historical person a fictional affair with Abigail Williams.
### The tragedy
- Abigail Williams is also a historical figure who was one of the group of girls who accused people in the town of practising witchcraft
- In the play, Miller increases the age of Abigail and decreases the age of Proctor, and invents a fictional adulterous affair between them
- The tragedy of the play is personal and historical
### Personal tragedy
- Proctor is a tragic figure in part because he is caught up in historical events that are completely outside his control. It seems that he is doomed by fate to suffer
	- Proctor is a hero who is taken down by fate
- However, Miller also explores the tragedy that comes from having a fatal flaw that leads to the tragic hero's downfall
	- Miller explores the idea of fatal flaws taking down heros
- According to Miller, Proctors tragic flaw is his lust, but also his uncertainty about how to deal with guilt.
### Guilt
- Proctor is a haunted figure, almost overwhelmed with his guilt, but angry and defiant against any accusation or any loss of reputation.
	- Proctor feels major guilt, doesn't want to lose reputation (everyone is worried about reputation)
- He has almost destroyed his marriage and his attempts to conceal his affair with Abigail lead to a series of consequences that ultimately end with his death
	- John hides the affair, ends up killing him
### Redemption
- It could be argued that Proctor's story is redemptive, not tragic
- Miller seems to make the Proctor's marriage central to the story and the arc of their relationship moves from bitterness and guilt and ends with love and forgiveness
	- Starts with wife having a cold heart
	- Ends with both being open and apologetic
- The final line of the play causes the audience to see some hope as Proctor's wife says, "He have his goodness now. God forbid I take it from him."
### Public tragedy
- The other dimension of the play that is contrasted with the personal is the public tragedy of the Salem Witch Trials
- Miller was personally caught up in the hunt for Communist spies working in the American government and Hollywood.
- He sees [McCarthyism](Glossary#^mccarthyism) as a modern version of a witch-hunt
### The witch hunt
- During the cold war, America and Russia were seeking to undermine each other's society and governments
- Russia had communist spies working in American society. See, for example, the [Alger Hiss Trial](https://www.fbi.gov/history/famous-cases/alger-hiss).
- According to Miller, the problem is the **paranoia** that leads people to protect their own lives by accusing other people.
### The secular (not based in religion/religious) Explanation
- By applying the ideas of [McCarthyism](Glossary#^mccarthyism) to the Salem Witch Trials, Miller explains the historical event in a secular manner
- According to Miller, what was at work in Salem was similar to what was at work in Washington in the 1950s: personal vengeance and political power
- It was not supernatural. Miller emphasises this when Proctor is exposed as a hypocrite and roars, "I SAY GOD IS DEAD"
### Human experience
- For Miller, the Salem Witch Trials are not the result of Satan launching an attack on the settlement, but on human weakness and ignorance
- Miller connects the McCarthyist accusers of Communists with the Puritan Christians
	- Miller is implying that McCarthyists are: weak, controlling, paranoid and delusional
- The Puritans are represented as being weak, controlling, paranoid and delusional
	- Could possibly be bias against them as a religious group
### Paradox
- But in condemning the Puritans, Miller is also exploring the paradoxical nature of humans and governments
	- Governments: humans controlling decisions made for other humans
	- Puritans had a theocratical government system (priests rule in the name of god)
- He says in his opening historical summary that "The Salem tragedy ... developed from a paradox."
- The paradox is that the Puritan had "Good purposes" to protect the community that ultimately led them to destroy their community
	- They all thought they were doing good/right, and it destroyed their town
### Opening
PARRIS: There is a faction that is sworn to drive me from my pulpit
Continued in [[gitshit/Lachlan's editing space/DailyNotes/Nov 09, 2023#Opening\|gitshit/Lachlan's editing space/DailyNotes/Nov 09, 2023#Opening]]

### The girls in the crucible
- Their motivation
	- Fear of Abigail, as she is their ringleader. Abigails word is law to them
- Behaviour
	- Erratic, leaning towards saving themselves and getting rid of anyone they don't like
- Perspective on the Witch Trials
	- A means to an end, a way to get rid of anyone who annoys them
- What life is like for them
	- Decently powerful during the trials
	- Normally they are ignored by everyone, their societal standing is almost nil
- What is Miller saying about their individual experience
	- The idea that the girls are giving themselves over to the group mentality, mob mentality
	- Giving up individuality for the safety of the crowd, giving up any kind of personal feeling or morality
- Are they to be sympathised with or condemned from his perspective?
	- They should be condemned from Millers perspective, as they're all lying to save themselves. This is similar to how Miller was falsely accused of being a communist during the red scare
- What about from your perspective?
	- Condemned, they're killing innocent people
- How does Miller represent experience relating to witch-hunting? Choose some key quotes for your character
	- 
- How does he use language to show the viciousness and hypocrisy of those who label witches and the anguish and suffering of those who are branded witches?
	- 
- What anomalies, paradoxes or inconsistencies are evident in the character
	- 

Mass hysteria:
A group is made of individuals, who've given up individuality to be part of a group
Individual vs group
If more people acted as individuals than as a group, then the witch trials mightn't have happened

todo:
- [ ] make a proper rules and navigation page
- [ ] organise files again, make a DO NOT EDIT (DNE) directory
- [ ] setup a time as a group to condense study notes into DNE directory

