---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/gitshit/lachlan-s-editing-space/daily-notes/nov-16-2023/"}
---

# English
contd from [Nov 15](Nov%2015,%202023#^ee6fa7)
7. What do you think the most emotional word in the poem is? What is the impact of this word?
Soon, it creates the whole poem. Leads the idea of it never actually happening
8. Highlight all the words that suggest the widower is stuck and can't move on. (eg: pause, stand, watch)

9. Murray uses simple plain language in this poem to express the widower's experience. This is unusual for a poem. Why do you think he does this?
Shows how simple and plain the widowers life is; devoid
10. How does the first person narrative help the audience to empathise with him?
The character feeling all "whatever it is"
11. Which line or lines had the most impact on you? Why?
"Then the sun will move on, and I will simply watch" - time is moving on around the widower, but he doesn't

### Human experiences in Widower in the Country
1. What is the main human experience in this text? Is it individual or collective?
Loneliness/Grief. Mostly individual, but has collective aspects (everyone has experienced some form of these experiences)
The painful effect of the experience of losing a loved one. It's about how someone deals with loss and grief. Also the experience of being isolated both geographically and emotionally.
2. What is the form of this text?
A poem
3. What are some typical conventions for this form? How do these help to represent the human experience? Does the text play with the form? If so, what is the impact on the audience?
Rhyming, repetition, metaphors, similes, personification, beats + meter, stanzas, imagery
Fresh metaphor vs tired metaphor: Fresh metaphors are metaphors that are rarely used/new entirely
Metaphor evokes imagery to help audience think and relate towards the human experience
Repetition is used to focus on one idea and expand on the idea
Stanzas are used throughout the poem to break down his day into segments, which shows how little is being done throughout the day. This explores the human experience of grief, showing how without a driving force in his life the widower does almost nothing with his time. (although he does nothing in the poem)
4. What is the purpose of this text?
The purpose of the text is to explore human experiences such as grief, as well as loneliness
Expressing an experience and/or emotion. Focuses on one man's grief after the death of his wife.
5. Who is the intended audience?
People who have experienced human experiences of loneliness and grief
People who can understand what it's like to experience what this man is experiencing
Adults (Murray is Aussie)
6. How has the text been structured? Is there anything unusual about how it's been structured? What is the impact of this on the audience?
The text has been structured using stanzas, however the stanzas don't follow any conventions such as rhyming
The unusual part about the structure is the lack of it.
The lack of structure furpther expands upon the concept of the widower's life feeling without purpose/structure
7. What are some key stylistic features of the text?
The time being spread throughout the stanzas, as well as the use of punctuation
8. What are some key language/visual features of this text? How do these help to represent the human experience?
The punctuation used is a key language feature, as it may not be grammatically correct, yet it adds pacing to the poem. Further demonstrates how slow paced everything is in the widowers life
9. How successful do you think the representation of human experience is in this text?
Very successful
10. What are the key emotions associated with the human experience? Do you think you would feel the same way as the man in the text? Why or why not?
Sadness, madness, badness. I would feel the same as the man, lacking purpose. No reason to live
11. In what ways has your thinking/feelings about this human experience changed from the first time you read the text to the last time you read it?
The human experience of grief has a lot more of an impact on people than I initially expected
12. What did you notice when you looked more closely at the text that you didn't notice at first?
The idea of the man never leaving bed was not noticed the first time I read the poem
At first this poem seems to lack emotion and impact but when I looked more closely, I could see it was, in fact, a deeply sad and moving poem about a man's individual experience of grief. ETC...
- Initially the poem seems simple, but after further exploration the deeper meaning around grief can be revealed
13. Is this text representing a positive human experience, a negative one, or both? How can you tell?
It represents a negative experience, throughout the answers written above it shows how bad it is
This is a negative experience of a man grieving. I can tell this through Murray's language choices such as "...insert quote..." and the setting on an isolated farm on a hot day around Christmas time "...insert quote...". The first person perspective adds to the sense of isolation and negativity

# Business
{ #140003}


Technology: leading edge, established
Technology is important for all businesses. The use of technology allows businesses to obtain competitive advantage. Businesses need to make the decision to use either **leading edge technology,** **established technology**, or a **combination of both**
## Leading edge technology
Technology that is the most advanced/innovative available at any given point/time
Very few people are using it
## Established technology
Technology that has been developed and is widely used already, it is simply accepted without question
It may not offer competitive advantage (since they're universally used) BUT not using them might be a competitive DISadvantage
Examples:
- self checkouts
- Phones
- websites
Other people are using it, not using it may lead to falling behind
## Qantas technology examples:
Explore: [Qantas tech news room](https://www.qantasnewsroom.com.au/topic/technology)
- Planes - specific models such as AirbusA350-1000 -> new model, leading edge
- Self service kiosk - established technology
	- Massively streamlined, relevant to the amount of HR qantas has
- In flight entertainment - wifi onboard a flight, expected by customers -> established technology
- Flight tracking (GPS inbuilt into screens on seats) -> established
- Bio-fuel -> leading edge

Technology is one of the easiest things to write about in assessment task

## Activities
1. **Describe** the difference between leading edge and established technologies @ Qantas

2. **Identify** 4 forms of established technologies and 2 forms of leading-edge technologies that are used by QANTAS

3. **Outline** the benefit of using established technology at QANTAS

4. **Discuss** the use of leading-edge technology by QANTAS
